# Get Files

We need to give our agent the ability to *do stuff*. We'll start by allowing it to list the contents of a directory and see each file's metadata (name and size).

Before we integrate this function with our LLM agent, let's just build the function itself. Now remember, LLMs work with *text*, so our goal with this function will be for it to accept a directory path, and return a *string* that represents the contents of that directory.

## Assignment

1. [x] Make a new directory called `functions` in the root of your project (*not* within the `calculator` directory). Inside, create a new file called `get_files_info.py`. Start writing the following function there:

```python
def get_files_info(working_directory, directory="."):
```

```
For reference, here's my project structure so far:

project_root/
├── calculator/
│   ├── main.py
│   ├── pkg/
│   │   ├── calculator.py
│   │   └── render.py
│   └── tests.py
└── functions/
    └── get_files_info.py
```

The key idea is that the `directory` parameter will be treated as a *relative* path within the `working_directory`. We'll allow the LLM agent to specify which `directory` it wants to scan, but the `working_directory` will be *set by us*. This means we can limit the scope of directories and files that the LLM is able to view.

2. [x] Begin implementing the `get_files_info` function. First we need to validate that the path to the `directory` is *inside* the `working_directory`.
    - [x] Use `os.path.abspath()` to get the absolute path of the `working_directory`. For example, if you pass in `"calculator"` as the `working_directory`, this might return something like `"/home/steve/ai-agent-project/calculator"`.
    - [x] Construct the full path to the target directory by calling `os.path.join()` with the absolute `working_directory` and the `directory` argument. To protect against shenanigans, also make sure to call `os.path.normpath()` on the combined path. This will handle things like `".."`, turning the path into its true form. The calls should look something like this:
  
    ```python
    target_dir = os.path.normpath(os.path.join(working_dir_abs, directory))
    ```

    - [x] Now check if `target_dir` *falls within* the absolute `working_directory` path. The safest way of doing this is to use `os.path.commonpath()`, which finds the longest sub-path shared by two paths. For example, if the working directory is `"/home/steve/ai-agent-project/calculator"` and the target directory is `"/home/steve/ai-agent-project/calculator/pkg"`, then the common path will be `"/home/steve/ai-agent-project/calculator"`. That is, the common path should be *the same as* the absolute working directory path – if the target directory is valid. You could code this expectation like so:
  
    ```python  
    # Will be True or False
    valid_target_dir = os.path.commonpath([working_dir_abs, target_dir]) == working_dir_abs
    ```

   - [x] If the target directory does *not* fall within the working directory, return an error string in the following format:
  
    ```python
    f'Error: Cannot list "{directory}" as it is outside the permitted working directory'
    ```

Now our LLM agent has some guardrails: we never want it to be able to perform any work outside the `working_directory` that we give it.

><div style="background-color:rgb(45, 4, 5);">
>Without this restriction, the LLM might run amok anywhere on the machine, reading sensitive files or overwriting important data. This is a *very* important step that we'll bake into every function the LLM can call.
></div>

3. [x] If the directory argument is not a directory, again, return an error string:
   
    ```
    f'Error: "{directory}" is not a directory'
    ```

><div style="background-color:rgb(42, 28, 13);">
>All of our "tool call" functions, including `get_files_info`, should *always* return a string. If errors can be raised inside them, we need to catch those errors and return a string describing the error instead. This will allow the LLM to handle errors gracefully.
></div>

4. [x] Iterate over the items in the target directory. For each of them, record the name, file size, and whether it's a directory itself. Use this data to build and return a string representing the contents of the target directory. It should be in the following format:

    ```
    - README.md: file_size=1032 bytes, is_dir=False
    - src: file_size=128 bytes, is_dir=True
    - package.json: file_size=1234 bytes, is_dir=False
    ```

*I've listed some useful standard library functions in the* `Tips` *section below*.

>The exact file sizes and even the order of files may vary depending on your operating system and file system. Your output doesn't need to match the example byte-for-byte, just the overall format.

5. [x] If any errors are raised by the standard library functions that you call, catch them and instead return a string describing the error. You may find it convenient to put everything in this function in a `try`/`except` block. When returning an error string, always prefix it with `Error:`.

6. [x] We need a way to *manually debug* our new `get_files_info` function! Create a new `test_get_files_info.py` file in the root of your project. When executed directly (`uv run test_get_files_info.py`) it should run the following function calls and print the results matching the formatting below (not necessarily the exact numbers).
   
    1. [x] `get_files_info("calculator", ".")`:

    ```
    Result for current directory:
      - main.py: file_size=719 bytes, is_dir=False
      - tests.py: file_size=1331 bytes, is_dir=False
      - pkg: file_size=44 bytes, is_dir=True
    ```

    2. [x] `get_files_info("calculator", "pkg")`:

    ```
    Result for 'pkg' directory:
      - calculator.py: file_size=1721 bytes, is_dir=False
      - render.py: file_size=376 bytes, is_dir=False
    ```
    3. [x] `get_files_info("calculator", "/bin")`:

    ```
    Result for '/bin' directory:
        Error: Cannot list "/bin" as it is outside the permitted working directory
    ```

    4. [x] `get_files_info("calculator", "../")`:

    ```
    Result for '../' directory:
        Error: Cannot list "../" as it is outside the permitted working directory
    ```

>To import from a subdirectory, use this syntax: `from DIRNAME.FILENAME import FUNCTION_NAME`
>
>Where `DIRNAME` is the name of the subdirectory, `FILENAME` is the name of the file without the `.py` extension, and `FUNCTION_NAME` is the name of the function you want to import.

7. [x] Run `uv run test_get_files_info.py`, and ensure your function works as expected.

## Tips

Here are some standard library functions you'll find helpful:

- `os.path.abspath()`: Get an absolute path from a relative path
- `os.path.join()`: Join two paths together safely (handles slashes)
- `os.path.normpath()`: Normalize a path (handles things like `..`)
- `os.path.commonpath()`: Get the common sub-path shared by multiple paths
- `os.listdir()`: List the contents of a directory
- `os.path.isdir()`: Check if a path points to an existing directory
- `os.path.isfile()`: Check if a path points to an existing regular file
- `os.path.getsize()`: Get the size of a file (in bytes)
- `.join()`: Join a list of strings together with a given separator