# Get File Content

Now that we have a function that can get the contents of a directory, we need one that can get the *contents of a file*. Again, we'll just return the file contents as a string, or an error string if something went wrong.

As always, we'll scope the function to a specific working directory, which will be set by us, not by the LLM agent.

## Assignment

1. [x] Create a new file in your `functions` directory – e.g., `functions/get_file_content.py` – and define the following function in it:

    ```python
    def get_file_content(working_directory, file_path):
    ```

2. [x] If the `file_path` is outside the `working_directory`, return the error string below. To validate the path, you can use essentially the same logic that you wrote for `get_files_info`.
   
    ```python
    f'Error: Cannot read "{file_path}" as it is outside the permitted working directory'
    ```

3. [x] If the `file_path` is not a file, again, return an error string:
   
    ```python
    f'Error: File not found or is not a regular file: "{file_path}"'
    ```

4. [x] Read the file and return its contents as a string.
    - [x] I'll list some useful standard library functions in the `Tips` section below.
    - [x] **Read only up to `10000` characters from the file, in case it's very large**. The `.read()` method of file objects makes this easy – just pass in the maximum number of characters to read as an argument. You'll get a string value representing either the full contents of the file or the first `n` characters, whichever is smaller.
    - [x] Check if the file *was* larger than the limit. A simple way of doing this is to try to read one more character after reading the initial chunk. If you get an empty string, you know that you already reached the end of the file. If you get a character back, then the file still had more data. In that case, add a message to the contents string to indicate that it was truncated. For example:
  
        ```python
        # After reading the first MAX_CHARS...
        if f.read(1):
            content += f'[...File "{file_path}" truncated at {MAX_CHARS} characters]'
        ```

    - [x] Instead of hard-coding the `10000` character limit, I stored it as a variable in a `config.py` file at the root of my project.

><div style="background-color:rgb(42, 28, 13);">
>We don't want to accidentally read a gigantic file and send all that data to the LLM... that's a good way to burn through our token limits.
></div>

5. [x] If any errors are raised by the standard library functions that you call, catch them and instead return a string describing the error. Always prefix errors with `Error:`. (Again, you may find it convenient to put everything in this function in a `try`/`except` block.)
6. [ ] Create a new `lorem.txt` file in the `calculator` directory. Fill it with at least 20,000 characters of `lorem ipsum` text. You can generate some [here](https://www.lipsum.com/).
7. [ ] Create a new test module at the root of your project, `test_get_file_content.py`. It should be similar in structure to the test module that you wrote for `get_files_info`. Start by testing `get_file_content("calculator", "lorem.txt")`, and ensure that it truncates properly. (You don't need to print the entire content; just check the length and the truncation message at the end.)
8. [ ] Once the *lorem ipsum* test is passing, add the following test cases, printing their outputs:
    - `get_file_content("calculator", "main.py")`
    - `get_file_content("calculator", "pkg/calculator.py")`
    - `get_file_content("calculator", "/bin/cat")` (this should return an error string)
    - `get_file_content("calculator", "pkg/does_not_exist.py")` (this should return an error string)

## Tips

- `os.path.abspath()`: Get an absolute path from a relative path
- `os.path.join()`: Join two paths together safely (handles slashes)
- `os.path.normpath()`: Normalize a path (handles things like ..)
- `os.path.commonpath()`: Get the common sub-path shared by multiple paths
- `os.path.isfile()`: Check if a path points to an existing regular file
- `open()`: Open a file for reading or writing
- `.read()`: Read a text file to a string, optionally specifying a maximum number of characters
  
Example of reading up to a certain number of characters from a text file:

```python
MAX_CHARS = 10000

with open(file_path, "r") as f:
    file_content_string = f.read(MAX_CHARS)
```

The `with` statement automatically closes the file for us when the block finishes.