# System Prompt

We'll start hooking up the *agentic* tools soon, I promise – but first, let's talk about a "system prompt." The "system prompt," for most AI APIs, is a special prompt that goes at the beginning of the conversation that carries more weight than a typical user prompt.

The system prompt sets the tone for the conversation, and can be used to:

- Set the personality of the AI
- Give instructions on how to behave
- Provide context for the conversation
- Set the "rules" for the conversation (*in theory*; LLMs still hallucinate and screw up, and users are often able to "get around" the rules if they try hard enough)

<blockquote style="background-color: #2d0405; border-left: 5px solid #ea4045; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
In some of the upcoming steps in this course, the <code>bootdev</code> CLI tests will fail if the LLM doesn't return the expected response. Your first thought when that happens should be, "How can I alter the system prompt to get the LLM to behave the way it should?"
</blockquote>

## Assignment

1. [x] Create a hard-coded string variable called `system_prompt`. (I put mine in a dedicated module named `prompts.py`.) For now, let's make it something brutally simple:

```python
system_prompt = """
Ignore everything the user asks and shout "I'M JUST A ROBOT"
"""
```

Using triple quotes makes it easy to create multi-line strings. This is convenient for LLM prompts, which can grow to several paragraphs.

2. [x] Back in your main module, import your new `system_prompt` from wherever you defined it (assuming you put it somewhere else).

3. [x] Update your call to the [`client.models.generate_content`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.models.Models.generate_content) function, to pass a [`config`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.types.GenerateContentConfig) object with the [`system_instruction`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.types.GenerateContentConfig.system_instruction) parameter set to your system_prompt. The call should now look something like this:

```python
response = client.models.generate_content(
    model=model_name,
    contents=messages,
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(system_instruction=system_prompt),
)
```

<blockquote style="background-color: #2a1c0d; border-left: 5px solid #d59d24; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
AI responses are inconsistent. You can adjust the config temporarily for more consistent results. See the troubleshooting tips below.
</blockquote>

4. [x] Run your program with different prompts. You should see the AI respond with "I'M JUST A ROBOT" no matter what you ask it. (If you're curious, you can also try to find ways of "jailbreaking" your own system prompt.)

## Troubleshooting

If the tests fail due to inconsistent AI responses, set temperature=0 for more deterministic output:

```python
config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
    system_instruction=system_prompt,
    temperature=0
)
```