# Function Declaration

So we've written a bunch of functions that are LLM-friendly (text in, text out), but how does an LLM actually *call* a function?

Well, the answer is that... it doesn't. At least not directly. It works like this:

1. We tell the LLM which functions are available to it.
2. We give it a prompt.
3. The LLM describes which function it wants to call, and what arguments to pass to it.
4. *We* call that function with the provided arguments.
5. We return the result to the LLM.

We're using the LLM as a decision-making engine, but we're still the ones running the code (thankfully).

Let's build the part of this system that tells the LLM which functions are available to it.

## Assignment

1. [x] The `google-genai` library that we're using to interact with the Gemini API offers a standard format to describe a function for LLM callers: [`types.FunctionDeclaration`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.types.FunctionDeclaration). We'll use this to build a "declaration" or "schema" for each of our functions. Again, this basically just tells the LLM *how the function should be called*. I'll give you my code for the first function, `get_files_info`, as an example, since it's a lot of work to slog through the docs:

```python
schema_get_files_info = types.FunctionDeclaration(
    name="get_files_info",
    description="Lists files in a specified directory relative to the working directory, providing file size and directory status",
    parameters=types.Schema(
        type=types.Type.OBJECT,
        properties={
            "directory": types.Schema(
                type=types.Type.STRING,
                description="Directory path to list files from, relative to the working directory (default is the working directory itself)",
            ),
        },
    ),
)
```

I added this schema to my `functions/get_files_info.py` file. You can put it wherever you like, but you'll probably find it convenient to keep each declaration close to the corresponding function.

<blockquote style="background-color: #2a1c0d; border-left: 5px solid #d59d24; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
Notice that, in the declaration for the LLM, we don't even mention the <code>working_directory</code> parameter of the function! We'll be passing that argument "from the outside," without the LLM agent knowing about it or being able to affect it.
</blockquote>

2. [x] Now that we're building declarations for our functions, we can include those in a *list of available functions* to provide to the LLM. Again, `google-genai` makes this easy, with the [`types.Tool`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.types.Tool) object. You can start with the code below. For now, the only function declaration in the list is the one for `get_files_info`, but we'll add the rest shortly.

```python
available_functions = types.Tool(
    function_declarations=[schema_get_files_info],
)
```

I put the list of available functions in a new file, `call_function.py`. As always, you can organize your code in whatever way makes sense to you.

3. [x] Back in your main module, import your available functions list from wherever you defined it, and add that to the `config` parameter in your `client.models.generate_content` call, under `tools`. This should go right next to where you recently specified the system prompt. For example:
   
```python
config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
    tools=[available_functions], system_instruction=system_prompt
)
```

4. [x] Update the system prompt to instruct the LLM on how to use the function. You can copy mine or use it as a starting point for your own edits. Be sure to at least give the prompt a quick read, to understand what it's doing:

```python
system_prompt = """
You are a helpful AI coding agent.

When a user asks a question or makes a request, make a function call plan. You can perform the following operations:

- List files and directories

All paths you provide should be relative to the working directory. You do not need to specify the working directory in your function calls as it is automatically injected for security reasons.
"""
```

5. [x] Instead of simply printing the `.text` property of the `generate_content` response, also check the `.function_calls` property. Notice that `function_calls` is a list of `FunctionCall` objects, each of which has properties like `.name` and `.args`. If this list contains any items, iterate over them and print the name and arguments of each function call in the format shown below. Note that `function_calls` is **not guaranteed** to be a list – its value will be `None` when it's empty.

```python
f"Calling function: {function_call.name}({function_call.args})"
```

If there are no function calls in the response, print the text as normal.

<blockquote style="border-left: 5px solid #33e865; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
The idea is that each response from the LLM agent should consist of <i>either</i> text <i>or</i> one or more function calls. The reason for this will become clear later. For now, if you find any function calls, just print those; and if you <i>don't</i> find any, just print the response text.
</blockquote>

6. [x] Test your program with some questions designed to trigger function calls. For example:

    - "what files are in the root?" -> get_files_info({'directory': '.'})
    - "what files are in the pkg directory?" -> get_files_info({'directory': 'pkg'})

<blockquote style="background-color: #041b2d; border-left: 5px solid #44a1ea; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
We aren't actually <i>calling</i> functions yet – we're just making sure the LLM knows which functions are available and how to request that they be called.
</blockquote>