# More Declarations

Now that our LLM agent is able to specify a function call to the `get_files_info` function, let's give it the ability to call the other functions as well.

## Assignment

1. [x] Following the same pattern that we used for `schema_get_files_info`, create declarations for the remaining functions. I've put some more details about the ***function declaration syntax*** in the `Tips` section.

    - [x] `get_file_content`
    - [x] `run_python_file`
    - [x] `write_file`

2. [x] Update your list of available functions to include all the declarations. We'll call them later.
3. [x] Update your system prompt.
4. [x] Test some prompts that you suspect will result in the various function calls. For example:

    - "read the contents of main.py" -> `get_file_content({'file_path': 'main.py'})`
    - "write 'hello' to main.txt" -> `write_file({'file_path': 'main.txt', 'content': 'hello'})`
    - "run main.py" -> `run_python_file({'file_path': 'main.py'})`
    - "list the contents of the pkg directory" -> `get_files_info({'directory': 'pkg'})`

<blockquote style="background-color: #041b2d; border-left: 5px solid #44a1ea; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
The LLM is still just choosing which functions to call based on the user's request. We'll have it actually call functions soon.
</blockquote>

## Tips

- For each declaration, you'll need to update at minimum the `name` and `description` of the function, as well as the `key` and `description` of each item in `parameters.properties`.
- If any function arguments are required, it's a good idea to put them in a `required` list under `parameters`. For example, the declaration for `get_file_content` would have `required=["file_path"]`.
- If a function accepts more than one argument from the LLM caller, the declaration will have multiple items in `parameters.properties`. For example, the declaration for `write_file` should include both `file_path` and `content`.
- Pay attention to the `type` of each parameter. Most of them will be `types.Type.STRING`, but the optional `args` parameter of `run_python_file` should be `types.Type.ARRAY` – which then has `items` that are `types.Type.STRING`. Yes, this can get pretty nested!