# Calling Functions

Okay, now our agent can *choose* which function to call; it's time to actually *call* the function. This will require a bit of ceremony.

## Assignment

1. [x] Create a new function that will handle the abstract task of calling one of our four functions and returning its result. This is the signature I used:

def call_function(function_call, verbose=False):

I put this function in `call_function.py` – the same module where I defined the list of available functions. As always, organize your code as you see fit.

The `function_call` argument will be a [`types.FunctionCall`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.types.FunctionCall) object that has, most importantly:

- A `name` property (the name of the function, a string)
- An `args` property (a `dict` of named arguments to the function)

2. [x] If `verbose` is specified, print the function name and args:

```python
print(f"Calling function: {function_call.name}({function_call.args})")
```

Otherwise, just print the name:

```python
print(f" - Calling function: {function_call.name}")
```

3. [x] We'll need to determine which of the four functions to call (if any). To make this ergonomic, define a mapping of *function names* to *actual functions*. You can use a `dict` for this:

```python
function_map = {
    "get_file_content": get_file_content,
    # etc.
}
```

4. [x] Check the `.name` property of the `function_call` argument. In theory it could be `None`, so I recommend copying it to a variable, e.g. `function_name`, in a way that guarantees you get a string:

```python
function_name = function_call.name or ""
```

5. [x] If the provided function name is not found in the mapping you defined earlier, return a [`types.Content`](https://googleapis.github.io/python-genai/genai.html#genai.types.Content) object that explains the error:

```python
return types.Content(
    role="tool",
    parts=[
        types.Part.from_function_response(
            name=function_name,
            response={"error": f"Unknown function: {function_name}"},
        )
    ],
)
```

6. [x] Assuming the function name is valid, handle the provided arguments. We're going to overwrite one argument – to ensure the working directory is set properly – so you should make a ***shallow copy*** of `function_call.args`. The `dict()` constructor is an easy way of doing this:

```python
args = dict(function_call.args) if function_call.args else {}
```

alternatively, use the `dict.copy()` method for better readability:

```python
args = function_call.args.copy() if function_call.args else {}
```

This way, we have our own copy of the args to work with. And if `function_call.args` is `None`, we get an empty dictionary, which is more convenient.

7. [x] Set `"working_directory"` to `"./calculator"` in the `args` dictionary.
8. [x] Now we get to actually call the function!

    - The values in your map of `function name -> function` are *callable functions*, so you can just call the one you need, e.g., `function_map[function_name]()`.
    - The syntax to pass a dictionary into a function using ***keyword arguments*** is `some_function(**some_args)`.
    - Assign the result of the function call to a variable, e.g. `function_result`. Remember that we defined all of our LLM-callable functions to always return strings, so this result variable will be a string.

9. [x] Return a `types.Content` object with a `from_function_response` part describing the result of the function call:

```python
return types.Content(
    role="tool",
    parts=[
        types.Part.from_function_response(
            name=function_name,
            response={"result": function_result},
        )
    ],
)
```

<blockquote style="background-color: #041b2d; border-left: 5px solid #44a1ea; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
Because <code>from_function_response</code> requires the response to be a dictionary, we just shove the string result into a <code>"result"</code> field.
</blockquote>

10. [x] Back in your main module – or wherever you handle the response from the LLM – instead of simply printing the name of the function that the model decided to call, use `call_function` and assign its result to a variable, e.g. `function_call_result`.
    1.  [x] The `types.Content` object that we return from `call_function` should have a non-empty `.parts` list. If it doesn't, raise an exception.
    2.  [x] We want to look at the `.function_response` property of the first item in the list of parts, i.e. `.parts[0].function_response`. It should be a `FunctionResponse` object. If it's somehow `None`, raise an exception.
    3.  [x] Finally, we need to check the `.response` field of the `FunctionResponse` object, i.e. `.parts[0].function_response.response`. This is where the actual function result will be. If it's `None`, raise an exception.
    4.  [x] Whew! Now that we know that some response came back from the function call, add `.parts[0]` to a list of function results. We'll use that later.
    5.  [x] If `verbose` mode is in effect, print the result of the function call like this:

        ```python
        print(f"-> {function_call_result.parts[0].function_response.response}")
        ```

11. [x] Test your program. You should be able to execute each function given a prompt that asks for it. Try some different prompts and use the `--verbose` flag to make sure all the functions work.

 - List a directory's contents.
 - Get a file's contents.
 - Write some text to a file (don't overwrite anything important; maybe create a new file).
 - Execute the calculator app's tests (`tests.py`).

<blockquote style="border-left: 5px solid #33e865; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
We aren't passing the function call results back to the LLM just yet.
</blockquote>