# Run Python

It's time to build the functionality for our agent to *run arbitrary Python code*.

Now, it's worth pausing to point out the inherent security risks here. We have a few things going for us:

1. We'll only allow the LLM to run code in a specific directory (the `working_directory`).
2. We'll use a 30-second timeout to prevent it from running indefinitely.

But aside from that... yes, the LLM can run arbitrary code that we place (or *it* places) in the working directory... so be careful. As long as you use this AI agent only for the simple tasks we're doing in this course, you should be fine.

<blockquote style="background-color: #2d0405; border-left: 5px solid #ea4045; padding: 5px 10px; margin: 10px auto">
Do not give this program to others for them to use! It doesn't have all the security and safety features that a production AI agent would have. This is for learning purposes only.
</blockquote>

## Assignment

1. [x] Create a new function in your `functions` directory called `run_python_file`. Here's the signature to use:
    ```python
    def run_python_file(working_directory, file_path, args=None):
    ```

2. [x] If the `file_path` is outside the `working_directory`, return the error string below. (Hopefully this part is easy by now!)

    ```python
    f'Error: Cannot execute "{file_path}" as it is outside the permitted working directory'
    ```

3. [x] Make sure that `file_path` exists and points to a regular file (rather than, e.g., a directory). `os.path.isfile()` answers both questions at once. If this check fails, return an error string:

    ```python
    f'Error: "{file_path}" does not exist or is not a regular file'
    ```

4. [x] If the file name doesn't **end with** `.py`, return an error string:

    ```python
    f'Error: "{file_path}" is not a Python file'
    ```

5. [x] Assuming all those checks passed, we're going to use a [`subprocess`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Child_process) to run the file. But first we need to build the *command* to run – in the form of a list of strings. Start with something like this:

    ```python
    command = ["python", absolute_file_path]
    ```

6. [x] If any additional `args` were provided, add them to the command list. You can use the `.extend()` method to do this.
7. [x] Use the [`subprocess.run()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.run) function to run the command that you built. This will return a [`CompletedProcess`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.CompletedProcess) object, which you'll want to assign to a variable. Also, when calling `subprocess.run()`, make sure to provide the necessary arguments to:
   1. [x] Set the working directory properly.
   2. [x] Capture output (i.e., `stdout` and `stderr`).
   3. [x] Decode the output to strings, rather than bytes; this is done by setting `text=True`.
   4. [x] Set a timeout of 30 seconds to prevent infinite execution.
8. [x] Build an output string based on the `CompletedProcess` object:
   1. [x] If the process exited with a non-zero `returncode`, include `"Process exited with code X"`.
   2. [x] If no output was produced in `stdout` or `stderr` (both of which are attributes of `CompletedProcess`), add `"No output produced"`.
   3. [x] Otherwise, include any text in `stdout` prefixed with `STDOUT`:, and any text in `stderr` prefixed with `STDERR`:.
9. [x] Return the output string.
10. [x] As usual, if any exception is raised anywhere in this function, catch it and return an error string:

    ```python
    f"Error: executing Python file: {e}"
    ```

11. [x] Create another new test module at the root of your project, `test_run_python_file`.py. It should be similar in structure to the test modules that you've written for other functions. Include the following test cases, printing each result:
    1. [x] `run_python_file("calculator", "main.py")` (should print the calculator's usage instructions)
    2. [x] `run_python_file("calculator", "main.py", ["3 + 5"])` (should run the calculator... which gives a kinda nasty rendered result)
    3. [x] `run_python_file("calculator", "tests.py")` (should run the calculator's tests successfully)
    4. [x] `run_python_file("calculator", "../main.py")` (this should return an error)
    5. [x] `run_python_file("calculator", "nonexistent.py")` (this should return an error)
    6. [x] `run_python_file("calculator", "lorem.txt")` (this should return an error)